---
description: Create horizontal o vertical lists with separators.
links:
  - label: GitHub
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/ui/blob/dev/src/runtime/components/layout/List.vue
---

## Usage

Add items to the `UList` component, and a separator using the [`separator-before`](#separator-before) or [`separator-after`](#separator-after) slots.

List items can be from simple HTML elements, to a `v-for` loop of components.

:component-example{component="list-example"}

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Lists are unordered by default, and are created using the `ul` tag. You can change the tag to `ol` for semantically ordered list by setting the `ordered` prop to `true`. This does not make any visual change.
::

### Orientation

By default, list items are stacked vertically. To stack the list items horizontally, set the `orientation` prop to `horizontal`.

:component-example{component="list-example-orientation"}

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
You can also change the default orientation for all list through the [global UI config](#/getting-started/theming#appconfigts).
::

### Item Orientation

Both content and separators have the same stacking orientation than the list. For example, if a list is stacked vertically, the container holding the content and the separators will also be stacked vertically.

The `itemOrientation` allows to change the stacking orientation of the item regardless of the list orientation.

:component-example{component="list-example-item-orientation"}

### Gap

To add a default space in between each list item, set the `gap` prop.

:component-example{component="list-example-gap"}

Alternatively, you may set a custom gap using the `class` attribute like any other HTML Element.

:component-example{component="list-example-padding-class"}

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Items are listed using Tailwind CSS [`flex`](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/flex). You can change this through the [UI configuration](#config).  
::

### Wrapping

When the items exceed the container height or width, these will not be wrapped into another line. To enable this behaviour, set the `wrap` prop.

:component-example{component="list-example-wrap"}

## Slots

### `separator-before`

Use this slot to set a separator **before** the item **contents**. It receives the current `index` of the item where is located, and both `isFirst` and `isLast` boolean if is the first or last item of the list, respectively.  

:component-example{component="list-example-slot-separator-before"}

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
Both `isFirst` and `isLast` booleans always returns `true` if there is only one item. 
::

### `separator-after`

Use this slot to set a separator **after** the item **contents**. It receives the current `index` of the item where is located, and both `isFirst` and `isLast` boolean if is the first or last item of the list, respectively.  

:component-example{component="list-example-slot-separator-after"}

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
Both `isFirst` and `isLast` booleans always returns `true` if there is only one item.
::

## Props

:component-props

## Config

:component-preset
