---
title: Contributing
description: Learn how to contributing to Nuxt UI
---

## Overview 

Nuxt UI thrives thanks to its fantastic community, which contributes by submitting issues, creating pull requests, and offering valuable feedback.

## Reporting Bugs

Before opening an issue to report a bug, please check our guide for some important steps.

## Feature Requests

Before opening an issue for a feature request, please review our guide for essential considerations.

## Submitting a Pull Request

### 1. Before You Start

- Check if there's an existing issue describing the problem or feature request.
- For feature development, open a feature request issue for discussion.
- Bundle typo fixes in a single pull request.

### 2. Local Development

1. Clone the `nuxt/ui` repository to your local machine:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/nuxt/ui.git
```

2. Install dependencies and start the development environment server:

```sh
pnpm install
npm run dev:prepare
npm run dev
```

#### IDE Setup

We recommend using VS Code along with the ESLint extension. You can enable auto-fix and formatting when saving your code. Here's how:

```json
{
  "editor.codeActionsOnSave": {
    "source.fixAll": false,
    "source.fixAll.eslint": true
  }
}
```

You can also use the `lint` command:

```sh
npm run lint
npm run lint:fix
```

#### No Prettier

Since ESLint is already configured to format the code, there's no need for duplicating functionality with Prettier.

If you have Prettier installed in your editor, we recommend disabling it to avoid conflicts. Note that we are discussing enabling Prettier in the future.

### 3. Commit Conventions

Use Conventional Commits for commit messages with the following format:

```
{type}({scope - optional}): {subject}

{body}

{footer}
```

#### `{types}`

- `feat`: for new features
- `fix`: for bug fixes
- `refactor`: for code changes that are neither bug fixes nor new features
- `perf`: for code refactoring that improves performance
- `test`: for code related to automatic testing
- `style`: for refactoring related to code style (not for CSS)
- `docs`: for changes related to readme or documentation-only changes
- `chore`: for anything else

#### `{scope}`

Where the change occurred, e.g., the component (`Table`, `Button`).

#### `{subject}`

A summary of the changes made.

#### Examples

```
feat(Alert): new component
chore(Table): improve accessibility
```

### 4. Making the Pull Request

- Follow the guide for creating a pull request and ensure your PR's title adheres to the Commit Convention. Mention any related issues in the PR description.

- Multiple commits are fine; no need to rebase or force push. We'll use `Squash and Merge` when merging.

- Ensure linting and make tests before making a PR. Avoid unrelated changes.

### 5. After You've Made a Pull Request

We'll review it promptly. If assigned to a maintainer, they'll review it carefully. Ignore the red text; it's for tracking purposes.
