---
title: Migration
description: 'Migration guide from Nuxt UI v2.x to Nuxt UI v3.x'
---

Nuxt UI v3 has had many changes from Nuxt UI v2. While most of the functionality was kept, some breaking changes are inevitable in a major release.

Below is a comprehensive migration guide to help you transition to Nuxt UI v3 quickly and efficiently.


### TailwindCSS changes
Since Nuxt UI relies on TailwindCSS under-the-hood, the migration required for TailwindCSS also affects Nuxt UI. To migrate your Tailwind configuration, including your custom theme and utility usage, please follow [TailwindCSS's migration guide](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/v4-beta).

### Renamed components
The following changes require you to simply change the names in your projects. No further modifications are needed:

1. `UDivider` was renamed to `USeparator`.
2. `UDropdown` was renamed to `UDropdownMenu`.
3. The panel slot in `UPopover` (`<template #panel>`) was renamed to `content` (`<template #content>`).
4. `UFormGroup` was renamed to `UFormField`.
5. `URange` was renamed to `USlider`.
6. `UToggle` was renamed to `USwitch`.
7. `UNotification` was renamed to `UToast`

### Changed components
The following changes require you to change some functionality in the projects:

1. `UVerticalNavigation`/`UHorizontalNavigation` have been unified under `UNavigationMenu`, and their `links` prop was renamed to `items`. You can control their direction using the `orientation` prop:

   ```diff
   // v2
   - <UVerticalNavigation :links="links" />
   - <UHorizontalNavigation :links="links" />

   // v3
   + <UNavigationMenu orientation="vertical" :items="links" />
   + <UNavigationMenu orientation="horizontal" :items="links" />
   ```

2. The `color` prop in all components no longer accepts the list of defined TailwindCSS colors. It now only accepts one of the colors defined in [the theme](/getting-started/theme#colors).

  ```diff
  - <UButton color="red">
  + <UButton color="error">
      Label
    </UButton>
  ```

### Changed configuration
The following changes require you to change some configuration in `app.config.ts` or throughout your app:

1. The color configuration in `app.config.ts` has been moved into the `colors` object. The `gray` configuration has been renamed to `neutral` to follow the [new theme structure](/getting-started/theme#colors)
  ```diff
  export default defineAppConfig({
	  ui: {
  -   primary: 'green',
  -   gray: 'cool'
  +   colors: {
  +     primary: 'green',
  +     neutral: 'slate'
  +   }
    }
  })
  ```

2. The color alias system in Nuxt UI v3 has been changed, and no longer generates by default like in Nuxt UI v2. That means, you won't have `text-primary` by default, as this can conflict with and override user-defined CSS. In order to be able to use them, you may generate them directly in your `@theme`:
  ```diff
  // This example demonstrates the app.vue file for simplicity purposes. However, the template can be present in any one of your pages, layouts, or components.
  <template>
    <div class="text-primary">
      This uses the dynamic primary color that updates based on color scheme!
    </div>
  </template>
  +<style>
  +@import "tailwindcss";
  +@import "@nuxt/ui";
  +@theme {
  +  --color-primary: var(--ui-primary);
  +}
  ```
  
