---
description: 'Display a progress as a list of ordered steps.'
links:
  - label: GitHub
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/ui/blob/dev/src/runtime/components/data/Table.vue
---

## Usage

Pass the step index as `v-model`, an array of steps as strings to the `steps` prop of the Ladder component.

::component-card
---
baseProps:
  steps:
    - Address
    - Shipping
    - Trade-in
    - Payment
    - Checkout
props:
  modelValue: 3
options:
  - name: modelValue
    restriction: only
    values:
      - 0
      - 1
      - 2
      - 3
      - 4
---
::

You may also pass an array of objects with following properties:

- `label` - The label of the step.
- `icon` - The icon of the step.
- `disabled` - Whether the step is disabled.
- `click` - The click handler of the step.
- `to` - Execute navigation to the set destination.

:component-example{component="ladder-example-step-objects"}

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
The `click` handler will take precedence over the navigation handler. If `click` is set to `false`, the navigation handler is disabled, even if `to` is declared.
::

## Click 

Steps don't change when the user clicks on it. To enable this behaviour, you can either set the `click` prop to `true`, or on each step setting `click` to `true`.

::component-card
---
baseProps:
  modelValue: 0
  steps:
    - Address
    - Shipping
    - Trade-in
    - Payment
    - Checkout
props:
  click: true
---
::

## Separators

The steps are separated with horizontal lines that can be disabled by setting `separators` to `false`. 

::component-card
---
baseProps:
  steps:
    - Address
    - Shipping
    - Trade-in
    - Payment
    - Checkout
props:
  separators: false
---
::

## Style

Steps can be either active or inactive. You may change the color of each state using the corresponding prop:

- `color` for an active step 
- `inactiveColor` for an inactive step

Besides all the colors from the `ui.colors` object, you can also use the `gray`.

::component-card
---
baseProps:
  steps:
    - Address
    - Shipping
    - Trade-in
    - Payment
    - Checkout
props:
  color: red
  inactiveColor: blue
---
::

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
The inactive color also affects the separator colors. 
::

## Size

Use the `size` prop to change the size of the ladder.

::component-card
---
baseProps:
  steps:
    - Address
    - Shipping
    - Trade-in
    - Payment
    - Checkout
props:
  size: md
options:
  - name: size
    restriction: included
    values:
      - 2xs
      - xs
      - sm
      - md
      - lg
      - xl
---
::

## Props

:component-props

## Config

:component-preset
